## A possible way to approach Brexit
for Prime Minister Theresa May + cabinet

I don't envy your position at the moment prime minister, but I believe you took on this challenge for a reason: you can be one of the most influential prime ministers in British - world - history. This is your opportunity and your burden. And from my perspective, it doesn't appear to be going very well ...

But perhaps because I'm young, and a part of me possesses a modernist impulse, I believe that we can make much of the Brexit opportunity. I was excited for a trio of women to remake the world, but some systemic inefficiencies and some of the vagaries of human nature in my country disrupted that plan. Despite this disruption the opportunity still exists: Britain has the chance to redefine many of the rules of the world order, based on a democratic mandate.

At this point - in light of the recent departure of those who supposedly were in charge of managing this transition - we all need more time. Everyone - the British commercial sector, the British government, the [EU](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/brexit-transition-period-european-council-michel-barnier-ekaterina-zeharieva-eu-theresa-may-david-a8183996.html), the US, etc. would benefit from more time to converse and share ideas and find consensus on a way forward. But of course this leaves some uncertainty - it is my intuition that the intervention should be thought out and measured, intentional rather than slapdash or hasty. This means we do not intervene to whatever extent we can and we do not finalize a deal in the next six months, but maybe 3 or 6 years. This gives companies some certainty, but still motivates immediate action. The people who need to know how the system works as it is, and can maintain that for some time.

I'm sure some brilliant public servants, academics and others have been thinking of plans to legally extend the exit process; identify them and hold a public discussion where people are incentivized to attend, where there is a clear and simple, time bound process that everyone follows. If they can agree on a direction or single recommendation, implement it immediately. Otherwise, perhaps a community driven system of arbiters or other recognized experts could vote. If consensus is not found perhaps opposing solutions should be explored and investment deferred.

As for what to do with the time, well, that's a bit more complex. I am in the process of inheriting this world, of learning to apply myself to it, sometimes to change it. I see what is going on around us, and I understand the volatility and uncertainty to be expected - welcome, even. We need to define a new system, a consensus driven system where people are incentivized to participate in an honest and meaningful way, to whatever extent they can. I believe we may already hold the key ... these screens are amazing, mesmerizing - incredibly powerful tools that we haven't yet figured out how to use properly, healthily. And so many of us choose to pour images and messages of violence and hate into our eyes ears and brains, it is no wonder that people want to kill and harm others. It is the example, the norm in our society. In my view it (violence) should be avoided - really the point of government, to prevent harm and ensure survival of humans (all humans that are alive). Otherwise, get out of the way - right?

And on that note - all humans that are alive - that's about it as far as we should draw the distinction. Put another way, discrimination must be utterly minimized - eradicated to whatever extent possible, at least subjective discrimination. This means geographic discrimination as well - why should a person - live human - born in Somalia not deserve a chance to go to London, for at least a year or two, to try to make their way? To make an impact and to support their families, their communities? Maybe if they are a net cost after 2 years - i.e. no taxes / reported income - then their visa is not renewed. But we are a globalizing world, a global world. We have the privilege of being able to safely and (relatively) cheaply go anywhere in the world in less than 24 hours. We all deserve the chance to explore it, to try to make a contribution to our local and global community. Don't hold it back - encourage it. The diversification of the world will do a great deal to ease cultural tensions.

There are some unmentionable things that will have to be mentioned, I'm afraid ... perhaps even from myself. But it is important to approach this out of love and abundance and hope and admiration for the people we are so lucky to be sharing this moment with, this lifetime with. If we can hold one another accountable in a gentle way, a self corrective - antifragile - way, we can remake the world and the entire human experience, we can finally transition from our animal state to our righteous place as the first and only global sentient species we are aware of in the universe. Brandeis said sunlight is the best disinfectant, and I'm afraid Britain - the island - might be one of the most infected places on earth. I mean this literally and figuratively, and certain behavior must no longer be tolerated. This will not be popular - in fact, every force in the world will want it to be snuffed, extinguished, die. But it is necessary, a band aid we must rip off to clean and redress some collective wound. And you more than anyone are in the position to do that, to speak with a voice people will listen to, to stand above pressures of peers and the press and act decisively in a strong and stable manner. It may be now or never ...

Defuse violence. Repress military action. Globally, we are a tinderbox at the moment ... if we go up in flames it may end very poorly for all of us - and no one watching would be surprised. So let's defy those forces of evil, overcome ourselves and design a new way of being, a society that gets stronger over time, coordinated to want and ensure that every human thrives to their fullest capacity. Authority should be decentralized to the lowest possible level. People need to be expected and incentivized to take responsibility for themselves and their actions - no one is exempt, save the severely disabled and the very young.

We stand at a pivotal moment in human history, the fulcrum generation. Deferring the inevitable - the reform of our systems of governance and way of life - will only exacerbate the ongoing, inevitable and needless suffering that is the tragic result of inefficiencies in the system. But taking this opportunity, this democratic mandate to make a deep and significant change - this is the path to
