---
layout: page
title: Backlog
---

# Backlog of posts

## Benevolent oversight

Surveillance has become associated with an abuse of power.

This piece will explore the ideals of modern surveillance capabilities (opportunities) and ways in which these systems can be abused (threats).

It will argue that the corruption of the surveillance systems in the early 21st century is largely due to the centralization of control, of collection systems, processing systems and, especially, data.

Finally, some suggestions will be made regarding areas for further research and development, leveraging emerging technologies. These suggestions will be oriented towards the question: Could a system of benevolent oversight be built that would work for humanity?

Relatedly, what if a computer algorithm could identify people with harmful intent in a video? Or detect concealed weapons? Or intervene if a lorry was being steered onto a sidewalk? Could we monitor digital conversations to identify those coordinating to create harm without violating peoples' right to privacy?


## DID module contracts

Explorations into an emerging opportunity for human governance based on putting in place checks on people's digital behavior.

Human behavior, intentional human behavior, and the gap between intended and actual behavior, even amongst deliberate and honest actors.

The rise of the global citizen and voluntary compliance with a set of rules, wherever you are in the world (i.e. transcending physical jurisdiction).

Location-based modules?
- When you enter a space, you abide by the rules created by the people in that space
- 'What should all people absolutely never do?'
- i.e. in Moore County (Lynchburg), you can't buy alcohol

Incentivizing participation


## The Future of Shipping

Maritime governance and environmental / social harm

The shortcomings of the existing systems.
- GNSS
- ECDIS
- AIS

What can be learned from the aviation industry?

Should everyone be held accountable?

Mechanisms of incentivization or enforcement (prefer the former)
- Reduced insurance costs
- Monetary compensation?
- Fines etc?

How blockchain could disrupt the shipping industry
- Supply chain management
- Bills of Lading or Cargo Manifests on chain
- Proof of location + smart contracts and + situational awareness

## More ideas

Early and naive perspective on the drivers of violence

Is some war necessary?
- Taleb, acceptable (desirable) volatility

To what extent is ethnocentrism part of human nature?

The scope of rationality and human nature -or- the scope of objectivity.

Basics of public key crypto
- Code example

FOAM on and amongst ships

Global weapon registry and cryptoeconomics therein
- What would it achieve
- How could it be incentivized
